# November 18, 2020

Today I made a quick fix to Maverick. I noticed that the fake login screen to access the admin page is
not mobile friendly so I decided to quickly fix it so it is now mobile friendly. I have also started working on
my next project and this project is the one that I mentioned before in one of my previous journal entries. The project
is a note taking web app like Evernote but instead of rich text it supports Markdown only as I am making this app primarily
for developers like me who prefer taking their notes in markdown. The editor for the project will actually be a web code
editor called Ace. Since I am using Next.js, a react framework, to build the project I have to use the react version of
the code editor called react-ace. The cool thing about this editor is that it allows you to use vim keybindings, however,
unlike the native vim, it has some limitations. One such limitations is that not all features are support like
having a .vimrc so in order to have custom keybindings you must keep using imap every time.

On top of starting this project I have also learned a lot about next.js by reading their docs. The Next.js documentation
is very good and learning Next.js concepts is very easy by just using their docs, no need to watch a tutorial. I learned what
the two forms of prerendering, static site generation (SSG) and server side rendering were all about and how to implement my
pages to do SSG or SSR with next.js. SSG and SSR are very important for production as it greatly improves the speed of your
application compared to CRA with its client side rendering. With SSG and SSR all the important data are prerendered so at the
time google tries to parse your pages, it already has that data loaded into the actual html rather than having to execute
the javascript like with CRA. This is very significant for real applications as this behavior determines how good the SEO
of your app will be. You also want to carefully determine which pages will use SSG or SSR. In most situations you always want
to prefer using SSG as it is much faster than SSR, you only want to use SSR when you have no choice. You want your
pages that do not change frequently, meaning you don't need the latest data when a user requests that page. A good example of
a situation where SSG would be useful are static pages such as your landing page or pages that don't update frequently like
a blog. For SSR, you want to use it on pages that are very dynamic in nature, meaning they can change very quickly. An
would be a text messaging app's chat window or an ecommerce website's shopping cart. I basically view prerendering as
the useEffect(funct, []) / componentDidMount you do to fetch your initial items from your backend but instead it does it before your
page is loaded.
