# November 20, 2020

In the last two days I have been working on my markdown note taking web app and have made some good progress towards implementing
some good features. For now I am only working on the frontend and plan to start working on the backend after I get most of the
core features of the frontend down. I ran into several roadblocks so far in development that I was eventually able to overcome
a lot of trial and error and with the help of google and going through source code.

One of these roadblocks was setting up the editor for the app. The editor I decided to use was Ace Editor, the library for
it is called [react-ace](https://github.com/securingsincity/react-ace). The first problem I faced with the editor was actually
getting it to even appear on the screen because it required access to actual dom elements like the window/document. Due to the
nature of Next.js it prerenders your components by default unless you change it. Since I am new to this react framework this was
not something I knew. After researching a bit about this behavior I found out how to force Next.js to not prerender the Ace Editor
component and that is with the use of dynamic imports demonstrated below.

```javascript
// Dynamic imports example
import dynamic from 'next/dynamic';
import classNames from 'classnames';

const AceReact = dynamic(() => import('./AceReact'), {
    ssr: false
});
```

The next roadblock I experienced with the ace editor was configuring its theme. Because I wanted me whole app to have the
same overall theme I either had to design the rest of the app based on one of the custom themes of the editor. From checking
out all the themes that react ace had to offer I found that I did not like any of them so I decided to make my own custom theme.
I decided to use the theme I currently use for my vscode editor, it is the Material Palenight theme. Figuring it out how to
add my own custom theme was a challenge because googling or the documentation did not really tell me how to do this. I actually
had to go through the source code for the provided themes myself and see how it was implemented. After reading the source
code of the provided themes I finally figured out how to add my own custom theme, it was actually quite easy since all I had
to do was copy one of their provided themes into my project and change the css.

Finally, configuring out how to set custom keybindings into the AceEditor vim keybdings was quite difficult. The biggest reason
why this was difficult to do was because stackoverflow results only got me answers that dealt with the regular AceEditor library
and not the react one. Second was that there was no documentation in react-ace that told me how to add my own custom vim keybinds.
I prefer to use jj instead of \<Esc> to go back from insert mode to normal mode because I find it more natural. In order to
set custom keybinds for vim I had to dive into the source code of the vim keybindings plugin of react-ace. From reading the source
code I discovered that it actually had functions that you can use to set custom keybinds. Because there was no
documentation on how to use the function, it took me a couple of tries to figure out how to use it, the fact that it was in
javascript and not typescript made it harder to figure out what the inputs were too and really made me appreciate typescript
even more.
